$Id: registry.txt,v 1.3 2003/02/18 23:27:45 lstein Exp $

OBDA REGISTRY FILE FORMAT, VERSION 1.00
---------------------------------------

The BioDirectory Registry is a system for specifying how BioPerl
programs find sequence databases.  It uses a site-wide configuration
file, known as the registry, which defines one or more databases and
the access methods to use to access them.  

For instance, you might start out by accessing sequence data over the
web, and later decide to install a locally mirrored copy of GenBank.
By changing one line in the registry file, all
Bio{Perl,Java,Python,Ruby} applications will start using the mirrored
local copy automatically - no source code changes are necessary.

INSTALLING THE REGISTRY FILE

The registry file should be named seqdatabase.ini.  By default, it
should be installed in one of the following locations:

   $HOME/.bioinformatics/seqdatabase.ini
   /etc/bioinformatics/seqdatabase.ini

The Bio{Perl,Java,Python,Ruby} registry-handling code will initialize
itself from the registry file located in the home directory first,
followed by the system-wide default in /etc.

If no local registry file cannot be found, the registry-handling code
will take its configuration from the file located at this URL:

   http://www.open-bio.org/registry/seqdatabase.ini

MODIFYING THE SEARCH PATH

The registry file search path can be modified by setting the
environment variable OBDA_SEARCH_PATH.  This variable is a "+"
delimited string of files and URLs, for example:

 OBDA_SEARCH_PATH=/home/lstein/seqdatabase.ini+http://foo.org/seqdatabase.ini

The search order proceeds from left to right.  The first file or URL
that is found ends the search.

FORMAT OF THE REGISTRY FILE

The registry file is a simple text file, as shown in the following
example:

----------------- example starts --------------
 VERSION=1.00

 [embl]
 protocol=biofetch
 location=http://www.ebi.ac.uk/cgi-bin/dbfetch
 dbname=embl

 [swissprot]
 protocol=biofetch
 location=http://www.ebi.ac.uk/cgi-bin/dbfetch
 dbname=swall
------------------ example ends ---------------

The first line is the registry format version number in the format
VERSION=X.XX.  The current version is 1.00.

The file remainder is a simple stanza format which goes:

  [database-name]
  tag=value
  tag=value

  [database-name]
  tag=value
  tag=value

Each stanza starts with a symbolic database service name enclosed in
square brackets.  Service names are case insensitive.  The remainder
of the stanza is followed by a series of tag=value pairs that
configure access to the service.

Database-name stanzas can be repeated, in which case the client should
try each service in turn from top to bottom.

The options under each stanza must have two non-optional tag=value lines being

  protocol=<protocol-type>
  location=<location-string>

The Protocol Tag
----------------

The protocol tag species what access mode to use.  Currently it can be
one of:

  flat
  biofetch
  biosql

"flat" is used to fetch sequences from local flat files that have been
indexed using BerkeleyDB or binary search indexing.

"biofetch" is used to fetch sequences from web-based databses.  Due to
restrictions on the use of these databases, this is recommended only
for lightweight applications.

"biosql" fetches sequences from BioSQL databases.  To use this module
you will need to install the bioperl-db distribution.

The Location Tag
----------------

The location tag tells the bioperl sequence fetching code where the
database is located.  Its interpretation depends on the protocol
chosen.  For example, it might be a directory on the local file
system, or a remote URL.

Other Tags
----------

Any number of additional tag values are allowed.  The number and
nature of these tags depends on the access protocol selected.  Some
protocols require no additional tags, whereas others will require
several.

 Protocol       Tag       Description
 --------       ---       -----------

 flat           location  Directory in which the index is stored.
                          The "config.dat" file generated during
                          indexing must be found in this location.

                dbname    Name of database.

 biofetch       location   Base URL for the web service.  Currently
                           the only compatible biofetch service is 
			   http://www.ebi.ac.uk/cgi-bin/dbfetch

                dbname     Name of the database.  Currently recognized
                           values are "embl" (sequence and protein),
                           "swall" (SwissProt + TREMBL), and "refseq"
                           (NCBI RefSeq entries).

 biosql		location   <host:port>
		dbname     <database_name>
		driver     mysql|postgres|oracle|sybase|sqlserver|access|csv|informix|odbc|rdb
		user       <username>
		passwd     <passwd>
		biodbname  <biodatabase name>

